Video title: transcript_mnJJiGt9V-A
    
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mnJJiGt9V-A
    
Video language: en
    
--------------------------------

Hi, my name is Suryos Shikumar and this is my app sentiment IQ. There's two things to note about it before we start. Um the first is that it is powered by driver. So it's made under the driver framework and it follows a pilot and command philosophy. So the AI does helps you but the human is the real pilot. And the second it was made using AI. So I got a cloud code and I put that into anti-gravity to build the UI after I used cloud logic to make the app. So, how it works is essentially you saw me first. I clicked Apple. That's the stock I'm going to use for the demo. And with that, it'll give you me a bunch of options to change. I can change the time window. So, I can go between 7 days, 30 days, 90 days. I can change the source filter to get news only, social only, or a mix of both news apps and social media. And I can change those weights manually. In this case, it's 60/40. That's what it is at default. And then I'll scroll down over here, and it'll give me the data on the app. So, in this case, it's Apple. So we see that Apple is at a neutral sentiment indicator and this is within a range of negative 1 to one. That'll be neutral. If it's above a one index, it'll be positive and it's below a one index, it's going to be a negative. And if you scroll over the sentiment breakdown, you can see how it gets that number. So only four different websites were positive. 13 were neutral and one is negative. Makes sense. A lot of articles want to be unbiased. So naturally, it's going to flow towards being neutral. The trend direction, it'll tell you if it's stable, going up or going down. uh for most mature companies as you see all four of these on the demo list are mature. It's going to be stable. They don't want to make big waves. The next is the data sources which we saw imported manually. Over here you get the visualization. It get charts it by the dates and it tells you how each article impacted the sentiment and here's the breakdown whether it's a social media or news source. And then below this we have the individual sources. So it'll get get the source, it'll give you the headline and based on the headline and the context of it, it'll give you an overall sentiment score and the sentiment scores some of it will be the overall score that you see over here. Um, unless you change the waiting. In this case, it's 60/40. So the news rating is 60% or it's 10 20% higher than the uh social media sourcing. So with that being said, let's go on to how I picked my data sources. So for this project, I ended up using the news API for um the majority of my sources. So I use that for my news source to gather in all the data from the news as it's a primary data source and it's able to retrieve the data in real time and give me data related to active stock tickers like Apple or Tesla, right? So I choose news API because number one, it's structured so it's pretty easy to do. Number two, it has a free key. Number three, it provides me real time access to these financial datas um making these like headlines and descriptions um from multiple different reputable financial sources and it conglomerates that into the app making it really easy to integrate. So that's why I chose that. And then because I didn't want to just get data from news sources, I also designed a system to support the the social sentiment in other words. So from social media, it mainly does Twitter and Reddit because it's harder to parse stuff like Instagram, right? So, I used Twitter and Reddit for these demo. If you scroll down here, you'll see um Reddit uh yeah, Reddit. And uh I also have this in the data set because it allows me to see what a different like indicator of the sentiment would be. Um because I it's really important to have a variety of different sources. So, I'm including both social media and a real-time data source. So, I'm going to talk about a little bit about the limitations of both and why I chose to combine them. So, the news source is a lot more formal. So, that means it has a delayed reaction to the events, but social media sentiment is a lot more immediate, but means it's also more noisy. So, there's a lot more useless stuff. So, for every 200 posts on social media, maybe one of them has actual uh valuable datas on the indicators of how Apple will perform. So the tool trust compensate for the weaknesses of both by having both them in there and waiting the sources rather than treat treating them equally. In my case, I value uh new sources a little more because I think they're a little more telling over what random person is saying and I can't really verify the background of the random person. At least when I look at something like um Reuters, I know that the writer has to be semi-credible because they went through a whole process to get hired, right? So next, let's talk about how the sentiment analysis actually works. So it uses a natural language approach. So essentially it uses this rule-based sentiment scoring algorithm. So it looks at the headline and off that headline it assigns it a positive, neutral or negative score compared to um an average. So each piece of text is processed and it's assigned a numerical value uh ranging from negative values to positive values and it has predefined thresholds. So scores above that threshold are considered positive, scores below are negative. The threshold in this case is zero. Ideally, you want a perfectly neutral article. So, if I look at this, Stock Twit says, "Finally got my vision pro. Mind blown. Totally worth it." We see mind blown totally worth it. Those are both two positive statements. So, it score would naturally be pretty high. So, 0.083, that's a positive score on the index, right? But if I scroll down, EU finds are headache, but Apple cash pile is enormous. Not concerned by stock twits. Um, that's also going to be a negative one because it says finds are a headache and that's naturally a negative phrase. So the sorting algorithm saw that and it showed that and it thought it would be a negative phrase. So it assigned it a negative score value. But that kind of shows one of the flaws with the system is that it at the end of the day it is an algorithm. So it's not perfect. So you see that it says that it's not concerned at the end. The algorithm couldn't recognize that. So it assigned a negative score value. So, this kind of highlights one of the downsides to uh using a one-sizefits-all algorithm. There's going to be some false positives. There's going to be some false negatives, but you're going to just have to live with that because there's no real way to parse for things like sarcasm and humor within these article headlines, right? So, after scoring these individual articles, the app aggregates all the scores as you see on the right, right? And uh it gives you like it it aggregates them for the given ticker and time window. So in this case it's 30 days and then it calculates the averages and the distribution that we set in this case 6040. That's what it's set to at default. I explained why I value news sources as I think they're a little more telling um of the actual market and I can trust their credibility. And then it calculates the overall sentiment score and off that sentiment score from the range of negative 1 to one. You'll find that it's neutral. Um it's important to note that this method does have its limitations. It doesn't fully understand contact. It doesn't understand sarcasm. uh and it doesn't understand this nuance financial language. So a phrase like loss is narrowed might still be interpretated as like a negative phrase even though it's like saying oh you lost less so it is positive in the long run. So it's useful for it kind of tells you why the model is used for directional insight and it's not perfect and it should not be used to um invest. It should be used as an indicator. So next I'll talk about some of the features of this app. I think the most important one to talk about is this time window. So, there's three different options. Uh, we decided to go with 7 days, 30 days, and 90 days. We decided those because those are the different things you can do with stocks. For the 7 days, you're going to be trading a lot more on uh options and short trading. Um, so you really only care how it's doing in the past week because you're going to short it. You're not going to keep the stock for a long time. 30 days is perfect for something like calculating value and stuff like ETFs. For example, I'm invested in the Vanguard S&P 500 ETF. So, I want to know if my collection of stocks is doing super well. So, I can just look at the sentiment. Oh, has Apple been having good sentiment in the past week? Yes. Okay, most of my stocks have. I'm sure Tesla has. I'm sure Nvidia has. That means my ETF's going up, but it doesn't exactly tell me what to do with that stock. I'm planning on holding it longterm anyway. For 90 days, you're going to get data that's done with the most um most uh value. So, it's going to be smoothened over time, and you're kind of just going to see how your stock valued at long term. For a mature company like Apple, you'll find that there's not going to be a big difference between this 30 days and 90 days. The only time there's going to be different if there's a product launch uh which will be then showed up majority in the 7-day report. However, there's been no product launch lately. So, we've seen that Apple is a mature company that's um smoothed out. The 7-day windows in short reflects recent sentiment which is driven by the current news events probably more skewed by social media. Um the 30 and 90day windows smooth out those fluctuations and they go for long-term events. So, an example of how that can be used is if the sentiment is positive for the last seven days but neutral over the 90 days, that probably signals that there's a new product that just launched and it's doing pretty well. Um, so it would be a good time to buy into the product right now because it's earnings can go up. But on the 90-day report, that wouldn't show up as well because you're looking at the long-term value of the company, right? All this really matters for investment decisions because short-term sentiment uh signals momentum or a news-driven trading strategy. uh but longer term set uh sentiment signals that you're playing it like safer. You're investing in more ETFs and you're just waiting for your stock to compound over a long period of time. So by comparing these different time windows, users can understand what the sentiment is and how it's evolving over time. Similarly, you can do the same thing with social media. Um for in my opinion, I don't value social media as highly because I don't know the name behind the face. I can't see their um how credible they are. So I would set it to something like 80 to 20 maybe. And if I look at that, there's no big value difference. Again, we saw that because um just in this case, we didn't see a lot of uh social media ones. We saw mostly news ones. So, if I'm waiting news super highly, it's filtering out most of these bad reports. You saw the overall score went up 0.1. Not a big thing. We talked about it. That's mostly the case because this is a mature company. That was just like me describing the logic of how the source waiting works. So, with all that being said, how would you use this type of tool? So, the best way you would use this tool is um as a a decision-m process and not a standalone indicator. So, if you see consistent positive sentiment trending upward over time, uh it reduces the chance of a bullish thesis and it supports entering or increasing your position in the market. But if the sentiment is shifting negative, it signals that there could be risk in the market and you should get out. So, it's useful to tell you the timing as there's short-term spikes in sentiment especially from social media sources that can indicate uh whether momentum or there's hype driven moves while longerterm sentiment uh validates a company's like notion or narrative of what they want to do. But knowing that there's a lot of limitations that sentiment analysis doesn't for fundamental like things like revenue, earnings or valuation and it's influenced by the social media which is biased reporting. You don't know you can't put a name to your face. So how would you use this tool in practice? You would combine this tool with a fundamental analysis and technical indicators um like the revenue AIDA weighted average cost of capital and a portfolio indicator. So it works best as a way to gouge the market perception and confirm or question an existing like investment thesis but it doesn't serve as a way to create one and it doesn't replace traditional analysis methods. I would recommend getting this with a portfolio analys an analyzer and you would look at all your investments and you'll see whether to stay in them or not based off of what the public sentiment is shifting towards. So for example, if I have 500k in Apple, I see that it's a mature company. It's overall score is not shifting over time. So I'd be okay staying in it. But if I saw that this overall score was going slightly negative over the past seven days, I'd get a little scared. I'd start selling some of my positions. Uh assuming that's if I don't want to keep it longterm. If you want to keep it a long term, you probably only care when it's completely crashing or really going up.


DISCLAIMER:


By using this tool to convert YouTube videos to Text, you acknowledge and agree to the following:


1. User Responsibility: You are responsible for ensuring that your use of this tool complies with all applicable copyright laws and YouTube's Terms of Use. This includes obtaining any necessary permissions from the original content creators before reproducing or distributing any content.


2. Content Ownership: The transcripts generated by this tool are based on publicly available content from YouTube. You do not own the rights to the original video content or its transcripts. All copyrights and ownership rights remain with the original content creators.


3. Attribution: This tool provides the URL of the original YouTube video for reference purposes. You are encouraged to include proper attribution when sharing the generated Text.


4. Limitations of Liability: We disclaim any liability for the misuse of the content generated through this tool. By using this tool, you agree to hold us harmless from any claims or disputes arising from your use of the content.